Doctor?
Anything to worry about?
No. Nothing serious.
-Since he was hit on the head...
-No, it's not a grave injury but...
Byomkesh, you must take some rest.
This was done
so that I have to be on rest, Doctor.
That's why, I can't do it.
Please prescribe some medicine.
I have to go out tomorrow.
-You're being too much now.
-You don't get it, Satya.
If I stay at home right now,
I'll miss out on many important clues.
I have to go out tomorrow.
I won't let you go out tomorrow.
-Why are you behaving like this?
-I don't want to hear it!
You have to rest all day tomorrow.
Do whatever you want
in the evening.
-Ajit, this is a warning.
-Hmm?
He better not stick to it.
You get it, Doctor?
I must go out tomorrow.
Prescribe something strong.
Hmm.
(chanting hymns)
-Come soon.
-Hmm.
Byomkesh, Ajit.
What was your aunt just doing, Nengti?
Labourers will come tomorrow.
She's sprinkling holy
water to purify the house.
I want to speak to everyone
in the house.
Who do you want to start with?
I don't feel...
too well.
It's natural to catch a cold
around this time.
How long have you been in this house?
About four years.
What were you doing since afternoon
the day Henna died?
After sir left office at 3:30 p.m.
I left too.
I came home.
Where was Henna at the time?
I didn't really notice.
Then after resting
for about an hour...
At 4:30 p.m...
Chingri brought tea and snacks.
After eating...
I went to the market at five p.m.
To buy some essentials...
shaving tools and all.
Did you see anyone while leaving?
I saw Uday.
Uday is a college student.
He's not supposed to be home at that time.
He's not interested in studies.
He often comes back home
from college.
What time did you return?
What time was it...
Around six p.m.
Then I kept the things in my room and...
went to the garden...
I go for a walk every day.
That's where I saw it.
And I informed the police immediately.
Hey...
Where--
Where is everyone?
Hmm.
Ravi, your boss goes to a secret place
every weekend.
You honestly don't know where it is?
No.
Hmm.
You don't know the phone number either?
You really don't know?
I really don't.
That's why I called the other number I had.
You can trust me, Byomkesh.
Boss has never shared any information.
Have you never tried to find out
on your own?
I'm just an employee.
Why should I bother?
The fire in Henna's room last night
which burnt all the documents...
You stay right here
but strangely enough, you didn't realise?
-Don't you think it's strange too?
-No.
There's nothing strange about it.
I don't get sleep as it is.
I have insomnia.
And after everything
that happened on Saturday...
I felt I wouldn't be able to sleep
so I wondered what to do.
So...
I took sleeping pills.
Do you take it every day?
Only on days I'm mentally distressed.
Hmm... distressed...
But this bottle of sleeping pills is full.
What keys are these?
I have the keys
to all the drawers and cabinets in office.
And this lock?
What's this for?
Looks brand new.
Yes, I bought it for my room.
-You haven't used it yet?
-No, but now I will.
-You will?
-Hmm.
Keep this too.
Where's your hometown, Ravi?
-Huh?
-Where are you from?
Cumilla.
-Didn't you know Henna Mullick from before?
-No.
And her father, Kamal Mullick?
-No...
So you know absolutely nothing
about Henna's Mullick's death.
-That's what you mean, right?
-Hmm.
Isn't it?
I can share something
if you won't tell anyone.
Go on, we won't tell anyone.
That day, I saw...
Henna embroidering a handkerchief.
Do you know who she was making it for?
UDAY
For Uday.
Uday got a bundle of thread
for Henna.
And Henna used it
to make a handkerchief for him.
That means Uday and Henna
were quite intimate.
And with Jugal?
Sorry, Byomkesh.
Please don't ask me about this anymore.
If ma'am gets to know...
Hmm.
Were you and Henna close, Ravi?
I have no weakness
for women, Byomkesh.
-You don't?
-No.
-Doesn't, huh.
-Good to hear that.
-Come, Ajit.
-Let's go.
You're a very interesting person.
Goodbye.
"My rose...
I hold you in my heart
But in turn, you tore my heart
With thorns.
I'm bleed heavily".
AVM PRODUCTIONS
GIRL
"Paint your face with that blood".
How is it?
Beautiful.
Yes, what is it?
Has your poetry
ever been published, Jugal?
Not yet.
But I want to.
Please check if this is your writing.
Yours, isn't it?
That's what the handwriting
looks like.
Were you in love with Henna?
"My rose...
I hold you in my heart
But in turn, you tore my heart
With thorns."
I don't know.
As long as Henna was here...
she had me under a strange spell.
-Now--
-That spell has broken.
Good.
It was you who threw the rose
through the window.
CHITRABANI
The day Henna died...
what were you doing
since that afternoon, Jugal?
My class had ended by two p.m. that day.
After that...
I came home at around three p.m.
Then I fell asleep while reading a book.
I woke up at around 5:30 p.m...
Then I went to the garden and came back
to my room after about 15 minutes.
That's when Chingri brought me some snacks.
You went to the garden at 5:30 p.m.
and you were there for 15 minutes.
That means you were in the garden
at 5:45 p.m.
Did you see Ravi Verma?
No.
In fact, I went to see Henna's body
after I heard the commotion.
M-Ma'am!
Come fast!
-Jugal...
-Hmm?
Was Henna intimate with anyone--
I mean, anyone else, in this house?
No, she wasn't close to anyone else.
She didn't interact with anyone.
The day Henna died,
the day I first came to this house...
your brother was accusing you
of Henna's murder.
Why did he accuse you?
Uday is jealous of me.
Hmm.
That means Uday was attracted to Henna too.
Who did Henna like better?
Neither of us.
That's what it seems like now.
-Can we speak to your mother?
-Sure.
Why are you troubling us
for no reason?
What do you want to know?
Make it quick.
Were you part of a violent rebel group
before marriage?
Yes, so what?
Non-violence--
You don't believe in non-violence, do you?
No, I don't.
Why aren't you on good terms
with Santosh?
You believe that Henna Mullick
was Santosh's mistress, right?
Yes.
My husband is a man of bad character.
What's your relationship
with Nengti and Chingri?
Their mother was my childhood friend.
She was like family.
I am not related to them by blood.
How was your relationship
with Henna Mullick?
Henna Mullick came to my house
six months ago.
No, I had nothing to do with her.
I never asked her to come up
to the first floor.
Henna was not a good girl.
Do you know why
Santosh brought Henna here?
No.
Were you okay with it?
Was there trouble between you
and Santosh over Henna?
I'm not compelled to answer that.
What are your sons like?
Both are genuine people.
They had nothing to do
with Henna.
They don't interact
with that kind of a girl.
Between five and six p.m
on the day of the murder...
where were you
and what were you doing?
I...
was doing up Chingri's hair.
And Chingri combed my hair
after that.
Then I went for a bath.
Go.
Did you see Henna go up to the terrace?
No.
Did you hear any noises
from the terrace?
No.
Do you know why Henna went
to the terrace every day?
To smoke.
I'd like to talk to Chingri once.
Whatever you want to ask her,
do it in front of me.
Okay.
When Henna first came to this house...
I really liked her.
I've never seen a more beautiful girl.
Henna?
I came to make friends with you.
I don't make friends with anyone.
You can go now.
But we'll be staying in the same house.
How can we not be friends?
I already told you
I don't make friends with anyone.
I'm busy.
Go now.
Didn't I tell you...
not to talk to that girl?
You still went?
I'm sorry, Aunty.
Chingri, did your uncle talk to Henna?
Chingri?
Would your uncle and Henna talk?
A few times...
She only spoke nicely to Uncle.
Would Henna ever go out of the house?
Yes.
Every 10 or 12 days, she used to dress up
and go out somewhere.
And she would be back in an hour.
Why don't you go to school, Chingri?
Aunty does not like it.
Why?
Girls who go to school become wayward.
They learn to smoke.
What were you doing between
five and six p.m. the day Henna died?
First I went to give some snacks to Jugal.
Then I went to Uday's room.
Was Uday in his room
when you went there?
No, Uday was not in his room.
Do you know when Henna went
to the terrace?
No, I didn't see.
Right after my bath...
I heard a lot of screaming
so I ran downstairs.
Chingri, what's your brother like?
He's a very good boy.
Why are you dragging him into all this?
That's enough. Please leave now.
Let's go.
Why don't you study, Nengti?
Uncle said he'll give me a job
in his company when I'm 18.
-So why waste my time studying?
-Yeah, right.
-When has education ever brought success?
-Very good, very good.
-We can say you're a handsome young boy.
-Yes.
Did Henna pay any attention to you?
Huh?
Going out?
I am elder to you.
Talk to me with respect.
Hmmph!
Nengti.
Did Henna pay any attention to you?
-Me? No, I didn't.
-Hey!
Answer properly.
What a brat!
Says he didn't pay heed to her!
Who did Henna talk to in this house?
Mostly with Uncle.
Sometimes with Jugal, Uday.
For all your fancy gestures now...
You couldn't even crawl
when you were little!
When did you next see me after that?
-After that... Now.
-Do you like this?
Of course.
You're at a ripe age, huh.
And my mother?
"My rose...
I hold you in my heart.
But in turn, you tore my heart
With thorns."
What do you think, Nengti?
Who could have killed Henna?
Give me a cigarette.
How do I know?
-You're a truth seeker, find out yourself.
-Huh?
Nengti!
What's that club Uday goes to?
Great Eastern Club.
That scoundrel!
-You're overindulging him, Byomkesh.
-So what if I am?
As long as it tempts the hidden
Mount Moinak to take a peek above water.
Let's go.
Can you excuse us?
Sure.
-Excuse me.
-Okay.
Ajit.
We're disturbing your recreation.
Please don't mind.
My whole life is recreation.
So these trivial interruptions
don't bother me.
The day Henna died...
What were you doing and where were you
from afternoon to evening that day?
I was here in the afternoon.
I went back home at around 4:30 p.m.
Then...
Then I went to my room...
Changed my clothes...
And then went to the hall.
Why did you go to the hall?
I'm not answerable to you.
It's my house.
I can be wherever,
whenever I want.
When you were in the hall...
did you see anyone else there?
Ravi Verma.
-Anyone else?
-Nengti.
Give me a smoke.
Hey, give me a smoke.
Want me to tell Mother?
Oh, then I'll also tell her
that you eat chicken at the club.
Why do you even try?
Now give it to me.
When Henna was going out of the house...
where were you?
In the hall.
Oh, you're still in the hall.
Did you and Henna have a chat?
-No comment.
-What?
No comment.
You and Henna...
were quite intimate.
-No comment.
-Ah.
How long were you in the hall
after Henna left?
Five minutes.
Where did you go after that?
Back to my room.
You should be going back too, now.
I'm busy.
You bought thread for Henna.
To embroider a design.
-What does that prove?
-That you and Henna were intimate.
But you want to hide it.
I feel you followed Henna
up to the terrace that day.
Right?
Why did you murder Henna, Uday?
-Listen.
-Yes?
I did follow Henna to the terrace that day.
But she locked the door
before I reached the terrace.
Say what you will, but you look like
someone who can murder Henna.
I can't.
We loved each other.
Look, Uday.
Henna wasn't in love with you.
Just remember that Henna was the puppeteer
and you were the puppet.
Okay?
Puppet?
Where to now?
-I feel really drawn to Lord Krishna, Ajit.
-Huh?
Let's take His name and dive
into the waters of River Kalyamuna.
Sure.
(singing devotional song)
I really liked your song.
I am Byomkesh Bakshi.
I'm just a truth seeker.
-And this is my friend Ajit Bandopadhyay.
-Ajit Bandopadhyay.
-It was wonderful!
-Thank you.
I got your address from Santosh.
I know.
He called to let me know.
Did you know that he'd given shelter
to a girl called Henna Mullick?
He took in his friend's orphaned daughter.
I knew about it.
Sukumari, I know how close
you and Santosh are.
Please don't hesitate in front of me.
The day Henna Mullick died,
you and Santosh were...
at your secret house.
Please tell me everything
that happened since that afternoon.
Why should I hesitate?
It's a matter of pride for me.
Look, Santosh is a respectable man...
-That's why this is confidential.
-It will remain confidential, rest assured.
Very well.
Listen, then.
We call it our "little home".
That day, at about two p.m.
I finished my work here and went there.
It was nearly three o'clock
by the time I was done cleaning.
Then, he came.
He has a habit of reading
after his bath.
After that, cooked some food.
He just doesn't want to eat
outside food, you see.
After that, I started my singing.
(singing devotional song)
After some time, at around eight p.m.
we received a phone call.
What's the matter?
What?
I have to leave immediately.
Come with me.
Who called?
My teacher.
You are her guardian?
Yes, I trained her in music.
You know where Santosh and Sukumari's
secret house is?
-No.
-No!
I don't know that.
Sukumari has only given me
the phone number.
And I don't call
unless it's very important.
Who called you?
Santosh's secretary.
He asked me to inform Santosh.
Then I called to let him know.
Tell me...
Very well.
Thank you.
Huh?
Goodbye.
Hmmph!
Your mind is not in the game today.
Rather, tell us what you're thinking about.
I don't think it was an inside job, Satya.
Why do you say that?
This Uday.
He's very suspicious.
That proves nothing.
Maybe Henna really...
I mean, maybe she really did fall
off the terrace.
Maybe the police is right.
Why were the documents
in her room burnt, then?
Then I can think of only one person.
-The mouth organ player.
-Good. But who is he?
And why would he kill Henna?
What's his motive?
Hello?
Byomkesh, I am Chameli Samaddar.
No, you see--
I want to tell you...
Your suspicions are completely wrong.
My sons did not kill Henna.
They're honest.
Unlike their father.
Henna fainted and
fell off the terrace.
This is Ajit Bandopadhyay.
Hung up.
It was Chameli.
She claims that...
her sons are not murderers.
Henna fell off the terrace and died.
This is very natural for Chameli.
Chameli is the anxious sort.
She's very protective about her sons.
She could be saying this
to protect them.
Doesn't she know
that the police has closed the case?
No, I asked AK Ray not to tell her.
But what's interesting is...
Santosh knows the case is closed
but he hasn't told anyone.
Do you suspect Santosh?
I suspect everyone.
-I'd even suspect you if you'd been there.
-Just look at him!
And what about Nengti?
I would suspect him too...
if he hadn't been the one to call me.
Chingri?
Certainly.
Chingri loves Jugal.
-Henna's rival?
-This is her motive...
and she had ample opportunity to kill too.
How could that happen because...
Uday said Henna locked the door
when she went to the terrace.
It's also possible that Chingri
was already hiding in the terrace.
The same logic applies
to Chameli as well.
She believes that her husband and Henna
were in an illicit relationship.
Are you absolutely sure
this is a murder?
Two hundred per cent.
Who else do you suspect?
Let's talk about Santosh Samaddar first.
He's a great man
but he has a serious character flaw.
He gave shelter to his dead friend's
beautiful daughter in his house.
Is this merely a selfless act
of friendship?
No but...
he must have some motive.
Santosh's motive...
Do I have to say it all?
Rack your own brains.
Could Henna be blackmailing Santosh
about Sukumari?
Henna is from Pakistan.
She isn't supposed to know about Sukumari.
What if she somehow came to know?
Why would Santosh keep Henna
in his house then?
And why would he care about blackmail?
Hmm...
You know, Satyabati...
Everyone at home
knows about his character.
But they never say a word about it.
Hence, Santosh has no reason
to fear Henna.
-You're right. He has an alibi.
-Sukumari has the same alibi.
Santosh and Sukumari share alibis
just like they share love for one another.
Do you suspect Sukumari?
Maybe she had little opportunity
but her motive was strong.
Santosh Samaddar gives her a lot of money
every month.
Maybe she even loves Santosh.
Maybe Henna was becoming a rival for her.
Hmm.
Who's next?
Ravi Verma.
That man...
He's like an eel.
Slips out if you try to catch him.
I believe Ravi Verma knew
Henna Mullick from before.
And he was both attracted to
and repelled by Henna.
It's natural to be attracted to her.
Unmarried man and such a beautiful girl...
But what could he find repulsive?
He's a strange man...
Perhaps Henna knew some secrets
about Ravi Verma...
Or it's possible that...
He's a strange-looking man.
Maybe he wanted to get close to Henna
but she didn’t pay any attention to him.
Maybe she mocked him
and he's blaming Uday to take revenge.
-Blame it on Uday?
-Actively!
When I was interrogating him,
I didn't ask him.
He said it himself, about that...
-Uday bringing thread for Henna...
-Yes, yes, the threads.
Right, right.
And Uday?
I think Henna did indulge Uday
a little too much.
And you know what Uday's like, Satya?
He's stupid and handsome.
He probably thought that Henna loves him.
But maybe later...
Uday came to know.
That Henna has trapped him.
You and Jugal are reading poetry together,
exchanging roses...
You think I don't know?
It's nothing like that.
I didn't do anything--
-And Jugal?
-Same motive.
Sexual jealousy.
On the surface, Jugal looks like...
a passive, poetic kind of person.
But we don't know
what's hidden in his heart.
He threw in a rose through the window.
Would he murder her?
That might have been to mislead the police.
It's possible that it happened later.
And before that, Jugal was hiding
on the terrace.
Treating us all like puppets?
Sewing handkerchiefs for Uday?
Listen--
Then he quickly went down
and kept the rose to mislead the police.
CHITRABANI
Then the question is...
Out of seven people,
who is the real culprit?
Uday?
Jugal?
Ravi Verma?
Chameli?
Nengti?
Chingri?
Or Santosh himself?
There's another hidden suspect.
-The flute player?
-Hmm.
Who could this Casanova be?
I'm sure it's someone from Pakistan.
Maybe he was Henna's lover.
He would sometimes bring books
for Henna from Pakistan.
Then for some reason,
they have conflicts...
the love gradually turns into poison...
Maybe because Henna was interested in Uday.
That man...
comes every 10 or 12 days.
I asked Nengti.
Whether he came after Henna's death
but Nengti said he did not.
He didn't...
Why didn't he?
Maybe he got the news of Henna's death.
Or maybe he's unwell or...
dead.
Dead?
What?
Ajit, the day Henna Mullick died...
do you remember that day?
Why wouldn't I?
Are you talking
about something in particular?
The Pakistan Airlines tragedy.
Breaking news.
Pakistan Airlines Plane flying from
Chittagong to Kolkata
crashed in the Bay of Bengal.
All passengers on board have died.
The pilot's loss of control
is to blame for the tragedy.